- [Instructor] As the design of information systems
has evolved, their architectures have included
more interconnectivity between systems.
We see it all the time.
One website will access your data from another platform.
Throughout this evolution, various integration strategies
have emerged that allow systems to exchange data
and share capabilities.
These approaches include techniques such as file transfers,
ETL, shared databases, and messaging.
Sharing data with these techniques requires a lot of work,
and each type of integration has some drawbacks,
whether that's inconsistent data, tight coupling,
poor security, or duplicate copies of data.
These drawbacks and the need
for a more lightweight technique drove engineers
towards APIs when designing new systems.
Let's clarify a few key points concerning APIs.
An API is an interface that is exposed
by one piece of software to allow other software
to communicate with it programmatically.
The API is typically divided into two parts,
the interface and the implementation.
The interface exposes operations the API can perform.
When called, those operations are executed
by the underlying source code
that serves as the implementation of the API.
The software that communicates with or calls the API
to invoke these operations is known as the client.
Now here's the beautiful thing about an API.
It shields the client from changes
to the underlying implementation.
That's because clients only interact with the interface.
If you watch closely, you'll notice that the boundary
between the client and the interface doesn't break
as we change the implementation of the API
in the background.
The concept of an API isn't new,
they've been around since the early days of computing.
Now, I like to classify them into two major categories,
local and remote.
Now the key difference between the two
is that a local API call takes place on a single computer.
A remote API call allows a client on one computer
to execute an operation on another computer.
When we use a remote API call from one computer to another,
it's sent over a network using a protocol.
There are many other types of APIs
that are found under these two broad categories.
We'll focus on how to consume RESTful APIs,
which are part of a class of a web APIs
that sit on top of the HTTP protocol.
Specifically, we'll learn how to build Java clients
that call popular RESTful APIs,
like Twitter's, using Java libraries
that do most of the low level work for us.
Armed with this knowledge,
you can quickly build applications with features
that are delivered through the data and capabilities
of APIs built by other developers.